[<](../README.md)

# Pricing Models for AWS

## On-Demand Instances

On-demand pricing has no long-term contract and requires no upfront payments, but its the most expensive pricing option.

On-demand instance types are not guaranteed to be always available, what can endanger the ability of a application to scale. Yoy can't scale your resources unless you have the actual resources available to add.



### **Identify scenarios/best fit for On-Demand Instance pricing**

**When you first start** with AWS, you will use on-demand pricing for your instances.

## Reserved Instances (RI)

An RI is not a special type of EC2 instance; it’s merely **a billing discount that is applied to an on-demand instance currently being used or to be used in your account**. 

RIs are defined as regional or zonal — that is, per region or AZ. Zonal RIs are an RI discount for a specific AZ within the AWS region => **Reserved Instances apply to EC2 instances hosted in a specific AZ, or region**.

If you need EC2 instances for scaling up compute capacity, reserving your instances will guarantee their availability when it’s time to scale.

With reserved pricing you are guaranteeing the availability of your EC2 instances in your AZs when you need them. If you do not reserve, there is no guarantee that your EC2 instances will be available when you need

Each reserved instances is defined by the following attributes:
- **Instance type:** the instance family and the size of the instance
- **Scope:** The regin or AZ location of the reserved instance
- **Tenancy:** Shared default hardware or single-tenant, dedicated hardware
- **Platform:** Windows or Linux

There are two types of Reserved instances:
1. **Standard Reserved Instance** 
     - gives you the biggest discount  
     - can be purchased as repeatable one-year terms or a three-year term
     - changes that can be made within your reservation: AZ you are using, instance size, and networking type
     - **Can be sold** in the Reserved Instance Market Place

2. **Convertible Reserved Instance**
    - Discount could be over 50% and the term can be a one- or a three-year term
    - Can made different changes, such as: instance type, operating system, from multitenancy to single tenancy compute operation
    - **Can't be* sold in the Reserved Instance Marketplace

**OBS:** There is a limit in the numbers of RIs you can purchase. For each region, you can purchase RI pricing based on the number of on-demand instances within the selected AWS region and additional 20 zonal RIs for each AZ within the region

**OBS:** Reserced Instances, once expired, do not automatically reapply or renew. Instead, you are charged on-demand prices for continued EC2 usage. *Billing alerts can be set up to warn you of any billing changes*


### **Identify scenarios/best fit for Reserved-Instance pricing**

If you’re running **production workloads**, especially workloads that need to scale up at a moment’s notice, you’re going to want to guarantee that your EC2 instances
are available to scale when required

If you **use instances or specific compute-related AWS services constantly (24/7)**, and **applications that routinely scale out and in a predictable pattern**




### **Describe Reserved-Instances flexibility**

Reserved pricing has many variables, per region, per AZ, standard 1-year or 3-year durations, or reservations that can be converted to another reservation type.

### **Describe Reserved-Instances behavior in AWS Organizations**


## Spot Instance pricing

A spot instance is spare compute capacity that AWS is not currently using.

You can save up to 90% of the purchase price. Price is based on supply and demand. 

Amazon can take your spot instance back with only a two-minute warning. The spot instance is available until another AWS account offers a higher spot price for the same type of spot instance in the same region

To counteract this, you can define a maximum spot price that you're willing to pay. But, spot instance prices are still volatile. 

Terminology:
- **Spot Instance Pool:** A current number of unused EC2 instances of the same instance type, operationg system, and AZ location
- **Spot price:** The current per-hour price of a spot instance
- **Spot instance request:** The maximum price you're willing to pay for a spot instance
- **Spot fleet:** A number of spot instances launched based on type and price.
  - Allows you to launch a desired number of instances, a fleet of isntances, based on the desired price and number of spot instance types
- **Spot instance interruption:** When the spot price exceeds your maximum price or capacity is no longer available, spot instances are terminated, stopped, or hibernated. A spot instance interruption notice, a two-minute warning will be generated before any changes are carried out.



### **Identify scenarios/best fit for Spot Instance pricing**

A spot fleet could be helpful if you wan to launch **a certain number of instances for a distributed application**, **a long-running batch processing job**, or a **Hadoop cluster**.