[<](../README.md)

# Explain the different cloud architecture design principles
## Explain the design principles
### **Design for failure**

*Everything fails all the time:* each service is going to fail, and you're not going to have any warning. Failures will happen unexpectedly.

Operating in the public cloud means that you must design your hosted application to be able to continue operating even if compute and storage failures occur.

Designing applications stack to fail over between AZs is the bare minimum to be protected by the EC-2 SLA agreement. 

Each customer's job is to use the available tools and services at AWS to create an application environment with the goal of 100% availability. When failures occur at AWS, automated processes must be designed and in place to ensure proper failover

### **Decouple components versus monolithic architecture**
### **Implement elasticity in the cloud versus on-premises**
### **Think parallel**

## The Well-Architected Framework

The Well-Architected Framework help customers to plan properly when moving to the AWS cloud by providing best practices.

Each application to be deployed at AWS needs to be viewed through the lens of five principles: Operation excellence, Security, Reliability, Performance efficency, and Cost Optimization

### **Operational excellence**

Guide on how best to execute, deploy, and monitor applications running at AWS using automated deployment monitoring procedures, continuos improvement, and automated solutions for recovering from failures

Key AWS Services:
- CloudWatch events and alarms
- CloudTrail
- EC2 Auto Scaling
- AWS Config
- Trusted Advisor

Questions:
- How are disruptions to applications handled (manually / automatically)?
- How can you analyze the ongoing health of your applications and infrastructure components hosted at AWS?

### **Security**

Guide on how to best design systems that will operate reliably and securely while protecting customer information and data records.

Key AWS Services:
- IAM
- AWS Organizations
- CloudWatch logs
- CloudTrail events
- S3 and S3 Glacier
- VPC flow logs

Questions:
- How are security credentials and authentication managed at AWS?
- How are automated procedures secured?

### **Reliability**

Guide on how systems and applications hosted at AWS can recover from disruption with minimal downtime and how applications can meet escalating demands.

Key AWS Services:
- ELB
- EC2 Auto Scaling
- CloudWatch alarms

Questions:
- How do you monitor resources hosted at AWS?
- How do applications hosted at AWS adapt to changes in demand by end users?

### **Performance efficiency**

Guide on how to use compute resources to meet and maintain your application requirements on an ongoing basis

Key AWS Services:
- EC2 Auto Scaling
- EBS Volumes
- RDS

Questions:
- Why did you select your database?
- Why did you select your current compute infrasctructure?

### **Cost Optimization**

Guide on how to design systems that meet your needs at the cheapest price point

Key AWS Services
- Cost Explorer
- Budgets
- EC2 Auto Scaling
- Trusted Advisor
- Simple Monthly Calculator


Questions
- How do you oversee usage and cost?
- How do you meet cost targets?
- Are you aware of current data transfer charges based on your AWS designs?

