[<](../README.md)

# Define the AWS Cloud and its value proposition

**Public Cloud**: a collection of data centers that consumers don't own, but rent from a cloud provider.

**Foundational Services:**
- Compute
- Storage
- Networking
- Security

Anything that a consumer host on public cloud is using compute and storage resources to execute the software application

Most of the services AWS offers fall into **Infrastructure as a a Service (IaaS)**. The consumer have the flexibility to create whatever architectural stack it desires.

**Platform as a service (PaaS)** cloud providers enable your developers to create custom applications on a variety of popular development platforms such as Java, PHP, and Python.

The PaaS cloud provider will host and scale the hosted application based on demand. 

**OBS: PaaS environments are installed on the IaaS resources of the PaaS cloud provider**

Your choice of language and development framework will determine the PaaS vendor you select. Amazon has several development solutions as CodeBuild, CodeCommit, Elastic Beanstalk, and CodeDeploy.

## Define the benefits of the AWS cloud including

### **Security**

#### *Data Security*

- Encryption:
    - All storage mediums, but **S3 Glacier** archive storage (automatically encrypted), are unencrypted by default. 
    - **EBS volumes** can be encrypted at rest and at transit using master keys from AWS or keys provided by the customer.
    - **Shared storage services**, such as EFS, and **DynamoDB** tables can be encrypted at rest 
    - **S3 buckets** can be encrypted using master keys from AWS or keys provided by the customer
- Durability: all data stored in the cloud is stored in multiple locations
    - **EBS volumes** are replicated withing the data center where they reside
    - **S3 objects** are replicated across three separate locations within the selected AWS region

#### *Data privacy*
AWS does not have data storage isolated for individual customers, and Amazon's job is to make sure your stored data records are isolated per AWS account.

#### *Data Control*
Customers are in full control of storing and retrieving their data stored in AWS. Private is default and only S3 buckets allow customers to make access public.

#### *Security controls*

Resource policies defining the precise level of security and access can be directly attached to resources, such as S3 buckets or EFS shared storage, and can be defined by the identity and access management (IAM) user an group security policy using the IAM service.

A costumer can enable multifactor authentication as an additional security control on S3 buckets to control when deletion of data records is performed

#### *Network Security*

Networking is managed at the subnet level, and all subnet are created as a private subnet. Subnets reside on a customer private networks, which are called a **Virtual private cloud** (VPC).

Public and private connectivity choices are decisions that are always carried out by each customer, not AWS:  
  - Each subnet's ingress and egress traffic can be controlled by a subnet firewall called Network ACLs that define separate stateless rules for both inbound and outbound packet flows
  - Each EC2 instance hosted on a subnet is further protected by an additional firewall called a security group  

#### *Application Security*

Web and application servers hosted at AWS should always be located on private subnets, and not directly accessible from the internet.

For Web servers that customers across the Internet access we can place a load balancer on a public subnet that directs incoming traffic from the public subnet to the target Web servers hosted in the private subnets.

The **Application Load Balancer** can perform authentication and SSL offload services. 



### **Reliability**  
### **High Availability** (*on demand self-service*)

A consumer can request a cloud service, and in seconds it's available in its AWS acocunt ready to configure. Any cloud service ordered is automatically delivered through heavily automated procedures.


### **Elasticity** (*scaling*)

Elasticity, or scaling, is used for both compute and storage. 
Applications in the AWS have the capability to **automatically scale based on demand**.

[Elasticity is achieved through Auto Scaling](../03_technology/03.03_identify-core-aws-services.md)


### **Agility**
### **Pay-as-you go pricing** (*measured service*)

In the cloud, a consumer is only billed for what it uses (measured service); including data transfer costs for outbound packet flow.

**OBS:** outbound packet flow is traffic between subnets hosted in different data centers.

**Three main types of charges:** compute, storage, and data transfer charges

Charges are usually per second, or per minute in the case of computer services like AWS EC2 *OR* per gigabyte per month in the case of storage services like S3 or virtural hard drives (**elastic block storage, EBS**)


### **Scalability**
### **Global Reach** (*broad network access*)

Cloude services can be accessed from almost anywhere accross the globe using the internet. Publicly, with HTTPS endpoint, or privately, with VPN connections.


Infrastructure resources for public cloud providers are pooled together in many data centers across the different regions of the world and are dynamically assigned on demand. 

AWS has clusters of data centers known as AZs or availability zones.


### **Economy of scale**

##  Explain how the AWS cloud allows users to focus on business value

Its expensive to build and maintain data centers. Because of virtualization, cloud services have replaced many local data centers. => renting instead of buying => Operational Expenses (OpEX) instead of Capital Expenditure (CapEX).

But, services hosted in the cloud need to be properly designed to not waste resources. Automated procedures to build, manage, monitor, and escale cloud services can help.

### **Shifting technical resources to revenue-generating activities as opposed to managing infrastructure**





