[<](../README.md)

# Define the AWS global infrastructure

## Describe the relationships among Regions, Availability Zones, and Edge Locations

### **AWS Regions**

An **AWS region** is several data centers located in a specific geographical area of the world. 

**OBS:** You can't use the AWS Management console, the AWS sotware development kits (SDKs), or the command-line interface (CLI) without first choosing a region.

**OBS:** Regions default to US East (N. Virginia)

Each AWS region is physically and securely separated from the others. Problems within one region will remain localized and will not affect any other regions.

Isolated regions allow AWS to guarantee a level of *operational compliance* and *data sovereignty*.

Data you store will by default remain isolated unless you move it or specifically direct AWS to do so. 

A customer can change a region's complete isolation, but this is a choice:
- DynamoDB global tables are hosted and replicated across multiple regions
- Route 53 can be used for geo-load-balacing applications hosted in different regions

4 interlinked conditions for choosing a region:
- Compliance rules
- Latency issues
- Services offered
- Pricing realities

### **Availability Zones (AZ)**

An **availability zone** is defined as one or more data centers inside a region. Each region is sliced up into multiple AZs. Each AZ is linked to the other AZs in the region through private network links that AWS owns (dedicated, redundant, low-latency fiber connections).

Each AWS region has at least two availability zones. Two AZs in the the same region will always be isolated, meaning that they don't share the same single data center.

Primary reasons for using AZs in your infrastructure design:
- Application failover
- Database replication

A failure of an AZ will not affect and derail the operation of the AWS services that are specifically designed to live outside the AZs:
- Global Services that sit at edge locations, specifically DNS Services such as Route 53, and CloudFront (AWS's CDN)
- S3 storage and Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) services function as a standalone entity that will continue to function even if one or all the data centers located within an AZ have failed

Using **multiple availability zones** provides customers the ability to design applications for *scale*, *resiliency*, and *high availability*

**OBS:** not designing applications to properly function in multiple AZs negates the SLA with AWS.

### **Edge Locations (Global Edge Services)**

Data centers located outside Amazon's regions spread across the world and built for delivering services withe lowest latency posible as they're closer to users than Regions or AZs. They direct incoming requests from any location to the desire Amazon resource.

Essential services at each edge location:
- **Route 53**: Global load balancing DNS services
- **AWS Shield**: Real-time inline distributed definel of service (DDoS) protection services
- **AWS Web Application Firewall**: Layer 7 protection for HTTP and HTTPS
- **CloudFront**: Content delivery network for the fast delivery of both static and dynamic data
- **AWS Lambda@Edge**: Create lambda functions to control Cloudfront delivery



## Describe how to achieve high availability through the use of multiple Availability Zones

### **Recall that high availability is achieved by using multiple Availability Zones**

### **Recognize that Availability Zones do not share single points of failure**

## Describe when to consider the use of multiple AWS Regions

### **Disaster recovery/business continuity**

### **Low latency for end-users**

Because AWS is hosted in the cloud, latency is how much time your packets take to travel from AWS to your location. Latency occurs in three scenarions:
- Connecting to a hosted application from another geographical location
- Replicating data records to multiple region locations
- Updating read replicas


### **Data sovereignty**

The rules and regulations that your company follows in its day-to-day business practices depends heavily on data sovereignty.

## Describe at a high level the benefits of Edge Locations

### **Amazon CloudFront**

CloudFront is AWS's content delivery network service located at the edge with its own points of presence (POPs).

It is essentially a caching service, located at edge location within each region:
- If the requested content is already in the cache, its delivered quickly
- If the content is not in the cache, Cloudfront requests the content from the origin server or location and then delivers your request

### **AWS Global Accelerator**