[<](../README.md)

# Define methods of deploying and operating in the AWS Cloud

## Identify at a high level different ways of provisioning and operating in the AWS cloud

### **Programmatic access, APIs, SDKs, AWS Management Console, CLI, Infrastructure as Code**

## Identify different types of cloud deployment models

### **All in with cloud/cloud native**

### **Hybrid**

### **On-premises**

## Identify connectivity options

### **VPN**

A VPN connection is a site-to-site tunnel connection between your VPC and your corporate network. 

Before VPN connections can be set up and connected you need to attach a "privated door", called a virtual private gateway (VPG). Also, you must manually add access to the VPG trough a route table entry before access is allowed.

Routing types supported are either static routes or dynamic routes across a VPN tunnel using the border gateway protocol (BGP).

Adhering to Amazon’s standards of redundancy, each VPN connection is created with two VPN endpoints on the Amazon side, and each tunnel is assigned with a unique public IP address.

On the opposite side of the VPN connection, on the customer side, resides the customer gateway.

When creating a customer gateway, you need to enter the public IP address location of your hardware device and indicate the type of routing to be used (static or dynamic).

Once connections are complete on the customer and the AWS side, traffic generated from the customer side of the VPN connection initiates the VPN tunnel.

After route table entries have been created allowing EC2 instances to communicate with VPN connections from the customer gateway, you can enable the automatic provisioning of the available routes through a process called **route propagation**.




### **AWS Direct Connect**

The purpose of AWS Direct Connect is to connect your internal corporate network to a Direct connect (DC) location over a private high-speed fiber connection with no Internet connection.

Each DC connection ordered is a single dedicated connection from your routers to the routers at AWS.

If a DC second connection is ordered, it is also provisioned on redundant Amazon routers. If a DC connection fails, traffic fails over to the second DC link automatically.

This is an expensive option, but perhaps desired availability makes this an option worth considering.

After a DC connection is in place, you can create virtual interfaces to a public AWS service such as S3 buckets or connect privately to a VPC

### **Public internet**

Before traffic can flow to or from the Internet for Instances hosted on a public subnet within a VPC you must create and attach an Internet gateway (IGW) to the desired VPC.

At AWS, an IGW is hosted by a massive horizontally scaled and highly available server: **Blackfoot**
