[<](../README.md)

# Define AWS Cloud security and compliance concepts



## Identify where to find AWS compliance information

AWS operates in many different countries and its subject to a variety of rules and regulations enforced by governments and compliance standards.

Also, depending on the type of business a customer operate, there are possibly many different levels of compliance he need to adhere to when operating in the AWS cloud.



### Locations of lists of recognized available compliance controls (for example, HIPPA, SOCs)

Once you sign on as an AWS customer, you have access to the compliance reports aligned with the standards, certifications, or attestations that Amazon has currently achieved and maintains.

All current compliance certifications and attestations that AWS is aligned with are audited and assessed using third-party independent auditors.

AWS has ben successfully audited against several compliance standards such as:

- **Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA)**: Secures the privacy of individual health information records in the United States
- **Gramm-Leachy-Billy Act (GLBA)**: mandates protection of customer information by financial industries.
- **Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX)**: ensures the integrity of financial operations of publicly traded companies
- **PCI DSS**: ensures the processing integrity of credit card data or authentication data
- **GDPR**: protects privacy and personal data for all citizens of the EU


### Recognize that compliance requirements vary among AWS services



## At a high level, describe how customers achieve compliance on AWS
### Identify different encryption options on AWS (for example, In transit, At rest)

## Describe who enables encryption on AWS for a given service
## Recognize there are services that will aid in auditing and reporting
### Recognize that logs exist for auditing and monitoring 



### **Amazon CloudWatch**

When hosting application in the AWS cloud, monitoring is essential. If you don't monitor your AWS resources, you're not going to know when there are issues; therefore, you're going to get in a lot of trouble.

We need to monitor because we want to know when our AWS services are not operating as expected. We are ultimately monitoring to be kept abreast of potential problems before they occur and when problems occur. Monitoring allows us to become proactive in solving problems. **Monitoring also allows us to proactively react to problems through automation**.

What can we monitor?  
- Performance
- Resources
- CPU and RAM utilization
- Available disk space
- Input/output per second (IOPS)
- Network traffic


CloudWatch is a **monitoring service embedded in the AWS cloud operating system**. Most AWS services are integrated with it. Basic monitoring provided by CloudWatch is free of charge and, depending on the AWS service, a select number of metrics are enabled.

Main CloudWatch integrations:  
- **SNS:** It is used for communication to humans or to other AWS services for sending automated alerts when CloudWatch alarms or events fire.  
- **ELB:** Load balancer metrics include active connection count, request count, healthy host count, transport layer security (TLS) connection errors, HTTP responses, and errors.
- **S3 buckets:** Storage metrics detail the number of objects and bucket size; request metrics include all requests, get requests, bytes uploaded and downloaded, 4xx errors, and 5xx errors.  
- **EC2 instances:** Once an instance has been launched from the Monitoring tab, 14 metrics are displayed. These include options for CPU utilization and credits, disk read and write operations, network traffic and packet flow, and status checks.  
- **EC2 auto scaling:** This allows you to launch or terminate instances controlled by CloudWatch alarms.  
- **CloudTrail:** After a trail has been created, CloudWatch writes the API calls fired in your AWS account to a CloudWatch log file stored in an S3 bucket.  
- **AWS Config:** All evaluated rules that fall out of compliance can invoke CloudWatch alarms, which in turn call Lambda.
- **RDS:** Metrics include database connections, disk queue length, free storage space, read and write throughput, solid-state drive (SSD) burst balance, and CPU credit usage.
- **IAM:** All authentication attempts, both successful and unsuccessful, can be monitored by a CloudWatch alarm. When the alarm is fired, SNS notifications can notify humans and automated responses.  
- **Trusted Advisor:** Metrics include color-codes: green (good), red (there’s issues to check), and yellow (there’s warnings to consider).  
- **VPC:** Metrics include NAT and transit gateways


Important features of CloudWatch:  
1. **Auto scaling with CloudWatch alarms:**: Automatically adjust your applications based on need with EC2 auto scaling, ELB, and CloudWatch alarms.  
2. **Filter logs with metric filters and alerts:** Be notified when patterns occur in logs, and act accordingly using CloudWatch alerts, metric filters, and simple notification service (SNS) notifications calling Lambda to run custom functions for custom tasks.  
3. **Billing alarms enabling to monitor costs:** Control costs by matching billing alerts to actual budget targets using billing alerts and SNS notifications.
4. **Logging CloudTrail IAM API calls to CloudWatch logs:** This involves creating CloudTrail trails, storing the trails in CloudWatch, and using metric filters on root account activity.  


#### *Monitoring EC2 Instances*

Instances can use two levels of monitoring:  
- **basic (free):** includes 12 preselected metrics that report every 5 minutes and 3 status check metrics that report every 1 minute.  
- **detailed (charged):** increases the frequency of reporting of each metric to 1-minute intervals.

CloudWatch alarms can be created to help you automatically reboot or even recover an EC2 instance with no additional CloudWatch charges. This feature is know as **EC2 Auto Recovery**:  
- **Reboot**: This is for when instances have health check failures.
  - The instance remains on the same physical host
  - The public DNS name, the private IP address, and data on any instance store volumes are retained  
  - The metric used for rebooting instances is the `StatusCheckFailed_Instance`.  
- **Recover:** This is for system health check failures that can occur when a loss of network connectivity, system power failure, or hardware/software issues occur on the hosting server
  - The failing instance is migrated during the instance reboot to new hardware, and any persistent EBS storage volumes are reattached
  - Any public IP address is retained; however, any in-memory data contents are lost
  - The metric used for recovering instances is the `StatusCheckFailed_System`. 




### **AWS Config**

AWS Config gives costumers the ability to monitor the configuration of their IaaS resources such as compute, networking, and monitoring against a set of customer-defined rules and capture any changes to the resource's configuration

AWS Config charges for:
- the number of configuration items being monitored in an account, per region
- the number of custom rules a customer defines

Results gathered by AWS Config are stored in an S3 bucket.

AWS Config is also integrated with CloudWatch and send detailed information about all configuration changes and notifications to CloudWatch events. An event is anything that happened that you should know about.


### **AWS CloudTrail**



### Explain the concept of least privileged access