[<](../README.md)

# Identify resources for security support

## Recognize there are different network security capabilities

### **Native AWS services** 

#### *[a) Security Groups](../03_technology/03.03_identify-core-aws-services.md)*

Security groups operate at the EC2 intance level and protect your server's incoming network connections by placing a software firewall around each attached network interface.

Each security group **is a collection of inbound and outbound rules that designate the port and protocols allowed into and of each network interface**.

#### *b) Network ACLs*
The network access control list (NACL) is an optional software firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for each subnet within the VPC.

Each VPC is associated with a default network ACL that is a placeholder, allowing all inbound and outbound IPv4 traffic and IPv6 traffic at the subnet level.

Custom NACLs can be created and, just like security groups, are a reusable security template associated with your AWS account.

Each NACL contains a set of inbound and outbound subnet traffic rules that are listed in order from a starting number rule to the highest number rule. 

Rules are processed in order and evaluated to determine if traffic is allowed or defined inbound or outbound on each subnet.



**OBS:** Security protection of the NACL is at the subnet level. Network traffic denied at the subnet level won’t get anywhere near your EC2 instances

Inconstrast to security group rules, NACLs rules are **stateless**: inbound and outbound rules are independent from each other.

Summary of NACLs:
- Each VPC is assigned a default NACL that allows all inbound and outbound traffic.
- Each NACL is a collection of deny or allow rules denying or allowing traffic inbound or outbound.
- The default NACL can be modified.
- Custom NACLs can be created and associated with any subnet.
- A custom NACL can be associated with more than one subnet.
- A subnet can be associated with only one NACL.
-  An NACL has separate inbound and outobund rules.


#### *c) AWS WAF (Web Application Firewall)*

WAF can custom filter incoming (ingress) publich traffic requests at Layer 7 for HTTP and HTTPS requests. The goal is to limit any malicious requests from getting any further into AWS infrastructure to the edge location

WAF rules can be applied to public-facing Application Load Balancers and CloudFront distributions.

WAF rules can be managed accross multiple AWS accounts and resources using the AWS Firewall Manager.

Supported behaviors:
- **Block requests from specific attackers, or attacks**: Block specific IP addresses, countries...
- **Serve restricted content to specific users**: for example, restrict content to users from a specific IP address range
- **Monitor incoming requests properties for analysis**


### **3rd party security products from the AWS Marketplace**


## Recognize there is documentation and where to find it (for example, best practices, whitepapers, official documents)

### AWS Knowledge Center, Security Center, security forum, and security blogs

### Partner Systems Integrators

## Know that security checks are a component of AWS Trusted Advisor