[<](../README.md)

# Define the AWS shared responsibility model

When we decide to host application is the Amazon public cloud, we implicitly accepted to work under a **shared security model**. 

## Recognize the elements of the Shared Responsibility Model

### **Security of the cloud: Amazon responsibility**

AWS has responsibilities of building and securing its cloud infrastructure.

### **Security in the cloud: Customer responsibility**

The customer responsibility is to design acceptable security provisions for applications and data hosted within the cloud. The level of acceptable security provisions is the customer's choice.

Customers can choose to use any of the managed services and utilities provided to accomplish their deployment security goals.


## Describe the customer’s responsibly on AWS and how they may shift depending on the service used


## Describe AWS responsibilities

### **Overall service operation and deployment**

### **Service orchestration**

### **Overall management of the cloud**

### **Security of the cloud components**

### **Maintenance of customer privacy**


## Service Level Agreement

The **Service Level Agreement** (SLA) specifies what services are providades and at what specific operational level. There will be details about acceptable outage time, the responsibility of the cloud provider when outages occur, and statements about not being responsible for events outside AWS control.

The consumer must fully understand what each cloud service offered provides; this is exactly what the cloud service will and will not do.

At Amazon, each service may have a separate SLA, but some services don't have a specific SLA at all. So, before considering the SLA, you should understand the *AWS Customer Agreement* for a big picture.
